just watching out that in addition to 10
guest speakers at this year's tiny house
summer camp five in Vermont a fully
hands-on building workshop will be
bringing out some off-grid lightweight
soul of our solar ovens as part of live
demonstrations and we still have more
live demos to announce check these guys
out too so levar calm hey I'm deke from
relaxed calm and Taos New Mexico anyways
we're here at the earthships I'm with
here with Ashley who's giving us so kind
of give us a tour want you tell us your
title usage so my name is Ashley Turin
and I work in the educational facility
at Earthship biotech sir alright so
we're going to go in this one today this
is one of the newer homes built by
Earthship biotech sir it is a two
bedroom single bathroom home with an
attached garage we like to call it the
way B house Mike Reynolds the owner
inventor of ership biotech sure he does
like to name all of the home so welcome
to the way behalf alright so we're going
to start by just entering the drive in
the garage I guess one so this is a full
- - Parker Oz and so we're going to come
on in so all of the earth shifts they're
made with about 45 percent recycled
material so you'll see a lot of bottles
cans and car tires especially if you
come to Towson and see some mid
construction build but some of this
bottle work is very tastefully done and
it kind of acts is almost like a stained
glass window but it's mostly filler for
all the walls so very easy building and
you don't have to purchase as many
materials when you have something
filling the inside that will just throw
a couple parties you're good to go right
what's the bottle of choice whether it
seemed to be um blue bottles are like
gold yellow to go in a wine oh yeah so
this is actually a very tasteful wall
this is all clear bottles here but in
different homes all the homes are custom
all over the world so you'll see a lot
of different colorful bottle walls blue
is our favorite
some of the liquor bottles and wine
bottles are preference well come on in
this is the main greenhouse hallway we
like to call it a buffer zone especially
during the wintertime this will hold a
little more heat in here so that we're
almost tricking the interior space into
thinking that this temperature out here
is the outside temperature during the
summer time what we can do to cool this
base office earning this is the pop some
of these windows okay
I'm noticing overhead two water roller
guide lights path right here these are
all gravity operated skylights and so
this gives a lot of nice airflow coming
in and out of the home airflow is
obviously key but when we come into the
interior space of the home you can
actually feel quite a temperature shift
in here oh and very noticeably it is
very noticeable temperature shift it's a
lot cooler in this room it is close to
90 outside right now and it's probably
if I were to get about 68 to 71 degrees
in here but this home because it is
tapping into the cool earth temperature
this wall back here will stay a lot of
constant 55 to 58 degrees this is what
we call our thermal mass temperature and
this temperature will stay pretty
constant all year round and so whether
it's 100 or negative 30 outside you've
got a constant thermal mass wall kind of
similar to a cave temperature or
basement temperature are those returns
over there one of those you're actually
cooling to cooling today we are in the
newest global model York ship all of the
global model Earth ships they have the
cooling tube just taking advantage of
the cool underground temperatures yes
you can see this goes all the way
through the berm of the house so just
like a cave or a basement we do have
about 15 to 20 feet of compacted earth
the wall at March or yeah or if you had
a natural hillside on your property you
could build right into the hillside it
will tap into that pool earth
temperature
and that thermal mass temperature can
store itself in the wall but this tube
goes all the way through a few tire
courses up because this is a tire wall
so compacted earth tire wall that's
earthquake-proof fire-proof of no off
gassing from the tires this goes all the
way through the berm that big mass of
dirt behind the house and is open on the
other side so it's rainin imagine a rain
dance and a little critter rattling
rattle saying we have a lot of those in
this area but all of the air now if you
have everything vented properly this
cooling tube exposed my windows to the
greenhouse and also those skylights that
we showed you this will act as a natural
convection and so the air will get
pulled through and it will cool down as
it travels underground and then all the
warm air will get pushed out and up
through the natural arrives as you're
pulling all the cool yeah it's almost
like a geothermal energy but no
electricity no moving parts it's all
pretty natural and so this is kind of
our natural form of air conditioned my
colder if you're familiar with my Kohler
The Mole Man or Malcolm wells Rob Roy
they used similar practices or different
variations of and it's so simple but it
works so well you can feel the cool air
coming through here it feels like air
conditioning but it just gets more cool
air in the house pushing out the warm
air and obviously getting fresh air
indigo because this wall is you know you
know that there's no windows on this
wall and it's because this is a complete
tire structure rammed earth tire is
coming all the way up and so this is
just Earth's behind this wall for about
15 to 20 feet now up about sorry I mean
up above us so these are some pretty
serious raptors these are called bigas
here in South New Mexico or just in the
New Mexico area in general this is a
very traditional building style so these
videos I believe that they are made out
of pine they are sustainably harvest
alert in an area this is very
traditional for a house kind of Adobe
looking home and these walls these are
all adobe walls
are made out of sand straw mud and water
these ones have a light coat of paint
over top of them but you can see the
flecks of straw in here
I wouldn't use any kind of paint you
don't want to use a latex paint there's
a specific type of paint that goes well
with the mud so if you're doing mud
walls earthen walls make sure you know
what you're putting on yeah but how much
earth is up above us I'm you know seeing
as these rafters are just so huge well
this is very traditional roof
you've got your these vegans obviously
we've got insulation above these planks
and then when and you can head to the
roof over at our educational facility we
will go on this one but it will see a
lot of metal Pro paneling so the roof is
not underground the metal Pro paneling
on the roof is because all of these
columns they collect all their own water
for rain and snow so all of these homes
they are completely off grid doing water
collection from rain and snow
energy control you know we don't have to
heat or cool the house because of this
thermal mass wall and the southern
exposed windows this is passive solar
gain at its best right here so we get
just enough light and heat to make it so
the home is about 65 to 75 degrees
inside the home at any period during the
year so like I said earlier whether it's
100 outside or negative 30 you'll have a
constant temperature in here but we also
do energy collection from solar panels
or windmill we also use about 45 percent
recycled materials in every single bill
and my favorite component of the home is
the gray water system we recycle the
water here so hey you guys anybody was
washing the dishes taking a shower
doing the laundry we do have laundry
machines internships that's all the
first use for the water when this water
goes down the drain it actually goes
a really light reason particle filter
before it hits all the plants or beds
there's wonder if it came out right here
he was a quick little buffer zone of
plants here is what it is and this if
you keep in here and be hard then that
will be a light grease and particle
filtering Oh inside there we just have a
really light panty hose that can catch
anything out but some people like to
turn that into a worm that will start it
off as a very easy grease and particle
filter and if the homeowner wants to
turn it into a worm bin they can do that
on our own but it goes through a system
like that before all the water hits all
the planter beds in the home so the
plant after you take a shower or take a
drink of water or run a laundry the
plants get all the second use for the
water and then that gray water gets
pumped to the toilet tank
so the toilet water is the third use for
the same water in the home and because
the plants do such a nice job with
filtering that water you'll notice that
it doesn't smell funny and it looks
funny it looks like normal toilet water
and if your dog drinks out of it it's
not that easy so basically if you go
into an Earthship and see that the
plants are doing so well you know that
someone's hygiene isn't up to par now
they're not showering it up that's how
are you like this because I use this
thing as an example just so everybody
knows this sink water actually goes
right to black water just in case of any
food particles that get through it's
mainly the shower the laundry all of
that water goes right to the plants
after the the plants and then the toilet
then that black water goes to a very
traditional septic unit outside before
it goes to the Blackwater Botanical cell
aka all the exterior gardening so it
goes through a leach field outside and
Enzi's into a lined planter bed outside
is the fourth use for the same water so
there's plants really flourish you can
grow food out there with the black water
as long as it's something with a trunk
or a stem you wouldn't want to grow root
vegetables in your black what's the
average rainfall around this area we
only get in between
eleven inches around let's see walking
long after this you guys will see a very
unique fridge this is a DC refrigerator
it's very insulated thick walled it runs
off direct current we use both DC and
eight while VI see how thick the
information there yet very fun Frost
right I think I saw the process made
here in the US this home and I'm not
exactly sure how much this one has I
think it has about 8,000 gallons of
water storage will see the catchment
space on the roof but if you've got
light rainfall like we do here in Taos
you want a lot of water storage and you
want a lot of reap storage or you want
reach space I'm sorry to touch that
water here's just yeah what's your dryer
luxurious and these cabinets we talked
about before they're all hands yeah
these are all hands are simple yet
classy my god oh yeah they were like
Mike Reynolds the owner inventor I mean
this company is really known for
beautiful handcrafted cabinets door
window water poison juice yeah they're
beautiful and she's also known for the
tyre walls what everyone knows Mike for
is the higher walls they call them the
garbage warrior this bedroom number one
I was a bathroom this is a very modern
bathroom this one even has a very modern
tub some of the older earthships have a
lot of handcrafted tubs
they look very whimsical that's really
very traditional but to get back to the
water question cuz we're standing in the
bathroom here we get some ice on boria's
we're standing in the bathroom here if
we did not use the water four times and
have so much water storage and large
root spaces there is a chance that we
could run out of water we get light
rainfall but their ship was invented in
this area so there is kind of a rough
calculation of how much a storage space
that you want and how much room space
that you want but if you were to get 2
inches of rainfall a year that's when I
would be a little concerned my house has
8,000 gallons of water storage and I
never run but let's head through the
greenhouse to
bedroom number two and you can see this
beautiful floating headboard right here
Mike loved to do these in the homes
because it gives a lot of storage space
behind the headboard for all your
clothes so this is kind of the closet
for this home and it's just right behind
the headboard it's a simple open closet
it works yeah so we got we have to go
through the greenhouse to get to bedroom
number two so we'll head back out here
and be more of a beautiful bottle work
coming through here yeah the doors to
would be like exact no table aspects job
is much this is Mike's you know this is
his signature look he does a lot of this
this style of window door cabinetry but
like I said this is a newer model of
Earthship so this is a little more
streamlined and a little more classy so
to speak it's nice because it shows the
average homeowner that you can live in
an off-grid home and still have all your
modern amenities and still feel good
about higher living and let's pop in
here there's another bedroom or a sorry
bathroom in this emissive with the more
custom shower area this is a custom
shower so unfortunately I can't get you
into one of the older models of
earthships
but if you can imagine this shower but
as a handcrafted tub we do a lot of
handcrafted tub with the cans and
bottles and they look like pieces of
artwork other great strap over here as
well where plants run and Willie the
garden while you're going to the bath
yeah and you can see all the storage
space in here more of Mike that's a heck
of a lot of storage yeah well there was
a point in time where folks they wanted
a little storage in the Earthship and so
since this is more than your home might
try to add as much storage as he could
possibly fit so you can see there is
another cooling tube here so yeah
the air a little more through here
there's not too much temperature
problems in this room at all because the
tire wall kind of goes all the way
around in a circle in this home so this
are in this room so this room is really
really nice and cool so i usually tor a
lot of tiny houses with the beds are
about 20 inches wide this is certainly a
different case here that's bigger than
some of the tiny houses I tour around my
youtube yes
tiny houses are amazing I love them I
would like to have one they're a little
more mobile this is definitely not my oh
no these tyre walls with different
intention here there's a different
intention I mean these tyre walls they
they weigh anywhere from two to four
hundred pounds per tire once you can
pack them that's why the wall is said to
be earthquake-proof and fireproof and
all of this good stuff but the tiny
house you can take a loop with um some
very stationary and these tiny plants
you can see in here this is sense as a
branding Earthship we just have little
baby plants going right now Japanese
cucumbers peppers tomatoes things we've
got mammoth basil
we've got thyme a little bit of every
pot smells fantastic there's Walker I
know it's very a yeah yeah yeah thank
you so much for the tour - Ashley oh
you're both appreciate it website wise
they want to find more of my yellow eww
chef calm that website has not only a
lot of our information regarding the
house but educational programs that
we've here so you could do an internship
with us or the Academy program where you
actually take classroom hours and build
on a site with the crew hopefully you'll
be able to build one of these things by
the time your month is done it's
certainly inspiring to see me again a
documentary and have some of the books
from Michael Reynolds and oh yeah and
thank you for the fantastic tours like
you've done this tour before yes oh yeah
here's why alright like blood yeah
you're welcome bye guys